..
    : YAFF is yet another force-field code.
    : Copyright (C) 2011 Toon Verstraelen <Toon.Verstraelen@UGent.be>,
    : Louis Vanduyfhuys <Louis.Vanduyfhuys@UGent.be>, Center for Molecular Modeling
    : (CMM), Ghent University, Ghent, Belgium; all rights reserved unless otherwise
    : stated.
    :
    : This file is part of YAFF.
    :
    : YAFF is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
    : modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
    : as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 3
    : of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
    :
    : YAFF is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    : but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    : MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
    : GNU General Public License for more details.
    :
    : You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    : along with this program; if not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>
    :
    : --

.. _tu_sec_silica:

Yaff experiments on alpha quartz with the BKS potential
#######################################################


Introduction
============


This tutorial introduces some basic features of Yaff with the aid of relatively
simple simulations using the BKS force field [BKS1990]_. The files needed for
this tutorial are distributed with the source code of Yaff in the directory
``data/examples/001_toturial_bks``. This tutorial assumes that you have
successfuly installed Yaff. (See :ref:`ug_sec_install` for more details.)

A copy of the latest source code with the examples can be obtained with the
following commands::

    git clone git://github.com/molmod/yaff.git
    cd yaff/data/examples/001_tutorial_bks

The directory ``data/examples/001_toturial_bks`` contains three directories
(``init``, ``opt`` and ``nvt``) and a file ``bks.pot``. The latter contains the
parameters of the BKS force field. The ``init`` directory just contains a script
and some input data to set up the initial structure of alpha quartz. The
directories ``opt`` and ``nvt`` each contain a simulation script
(``simulation.py``) and an analysis script (``analysis.py``). All scripts
contain an abundant amount of comments to explain each step and the parameters
that are used. The simulation script in the ``opt`` directory can be used to
optimize the positions of the nuclei and/or the cell geometry. The corresponding
analysis script can be used to fit the bulk modulus to a series of
:math:`(p,V,E)` data points. The directory ``nvt`` contains a simulation script
to run an NVT simulation on the quartz system. The analysis script computes the
average pressure and the error on that average.


Preparation
===========

In order to prepare an initial structure, run the script ``mksystem.py`` in the
directory ``init``::

    cd init
    python mksystem.py

This script uses data from the files ``rvecs.txt`` and ``struct.xyz`` to
construct an initial state for the simulations in the following section. One may
modify the scripts to construct alternative initial states.



Bulk modulus
============

The goal of the first assignment is to estimate the bulk modulus of quartz at
:math:`T=0K` and an external pressure of :math:`p_\text{ext}=0\;\text{bar}`.
This result can be obtained in (at least) two ways, either by fitting a linear
model to the :math:`p(V)` relation, or by fitting a quadratic model to the
:math:`E(V)` relation. More advanced approaches such as a fit to the
`Birch--Murnaghan equation of state
<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Birch%E2%80%93Murnaghan_equation_of_state>`_ or a
direct computation of :math:`\frac{d^2 E}{d V^2}` are also possible but are not
discussed here for the sake of simplicity.

The script ``simulation.py`` in the directory ``opt`` can be used to optimize
the structure of a quartz with a given external pressure. It uses the file
``init.chk`` from the directory ``init`` as the initial structure for the
optimization. The script can be executed as follows: ``python simulation.py``.

As a final result, the individual contributions to the total force field energy
of the optimized system and the optimal cell volume are printed on screen. Run
several tests to see which values for the parameters in the script
``simulation.py`` are suitable. The script creates several additional output
files that can be used to analyze the optimization:

* ``traj.xyz``: a trajectory file with the nuclear coordinates at each time step
  that can be visualized with Molden, VMD and many other programs, e.g. ``molden
  traj.xyz``

* ``opt_energy.png``: a figure with the energy contributions as function of the
  optimization step. This file can be viewed with the command ``display
  opt_energy.png``.

* ``opt_cell.png``: a figure with the cell parameters as function of the
  optimization step. This file can be viewed with the command ``display
  opt_cell.png``.

* ``opt.chk``: a file with the optimized structure.

Once an acceptable set of :math:`(p,V,E)` datapoints are obtained, these values
can be added to the beginning of the script ``analysis.py``. Run this script
(python ``analysis.py``) to perform the fitting procedure. Besides the screen
output, two figures are generated: ``pv.png`` and ``ev.png``, which contain your
data and the fitted models. The data point with the smallest pressure (in
absolute value) is used as the reference point for the fit.

If you are familiar with the Python language, it is worthwhile to add a loop
over different external pressures in the script ``simulation.py``. This makes it
far easier to solve the problem. Furthermore, one further speed up one's work
flow by writing the essential output of ``simulation.py`` to a data file that
can be read in the ``analysis.py`` script,


Thermal expansion
=================

The volumetric thermal expansion in the limit of :math:`T=0K` can be estimated with the following relation:

.. math::
    p = 3 B \alpha_V T

where :math:`p` is the pressure, :math:`B` is the bulk modulus at :math:`T=0K`,
:math:`\alpha_V` is the thermal expansion coefficient at :math:`T=0K` and
:math:`T` is the temperature. The bulk modulus from the previous section can be
used. The goal of this section is to estimate :math:`\alpha_V` for quartz from
several :math:`(p,T)` data points obtained with NVT molecular dynamics
simulations. The NVT simulations use the fixed optimized cell parameters from
the structure optimization at :math:`T=0K`. (See previous section.)

The script ``simulation.py`` in the directory ``nvt`` performs an NVT
simulation, using the optimized cell from the previous section as initial
structure. (Both the nuclear coordinates and the cell parameters from the
optimization are used. The cell parameters do not change during an NVT
simulation.) The script is executed as follows::

    python simulations.py 300 500

The two parameters are the temperature of the thermostat and the number of
simulation steps, respectively. The script contains several parameters that one
may tune to obtain decent results. Especially the choice of the thermostat is
important for the statistical efficiency of the ensemble average of the
pressure. By commenting/uncommenting the appropriate lines in the script, one
may select one of the following thermostats:

1. The Andersen thermostat. In this algorithm, the nuclear velocities are
   regularly reseted at random values from the Maxwell-Boltzmann distribution.

2. The Langevin thermostat. In this algorithm, the nuclei are slowed down by a
   uniform friction coefficient and accelerated by additional random nuclear
   forces (collisions with an external bath). Both effects are in equilibrium at
   the requested temperature. The two main parameters are the temperature
   (obviously) and a time constant that determines the time horizon of the
   nuclear motion.

3. The Nos√©-Hoover chains (NHC) thermostat. This method couples the nuclear
   motion to a fictitious degree of freedom that represents the heat bath. The
   equations of motion only deviate very mildly from the regular Newton
   equations of motion. Just like the Langevin thermostat, this thermostat is
   controlled mainly by two parameters: the temperature and a time constant.

The script ``simulation.py`` generates the following output files, where
``NNNN`` is the temperature and ``MMMMMM`` is the number of iterations in the
Verlet algorithm:

* ``traj_NNNN_MMMMMM.xyz``. This can be used to visualize the time-dependent
  nuclear positions, e.g. with VMD.

* ``traj_NNNN_MMMMMM.h5``. This a binary trajectory file (similar to
  ``traj_NNNN_MMMMMM.xyz``) that contains all time-dependent information from
  the NVT simulation. It is used for the post processing of the simulation. One
  may request the contents of such file with ``h5dump -n traj_NNNN_MMMMMM.h5``.

* ``ener_NNNN_MMMMMM.png``. This is a plot with the time dependent energies.

* ``temp_NNNN_MMMMMM.png``. This is a plot with the time temperature.

* ``press_NNNN_MMMMMM.png``. This is a plot with the time pressure.

The script ``analysis.py`` computes the average pressure and the error on the
average using the block-average method. The script is executed as follows::

    python analysis.py 300 500 20

where the three parameters are the temperature, the length of the simulation and
the number of initial steps to be omitted from the analysis. (Some initial data
points should be omitted because the first part of the simulation consists of an
equilibration period that is not suitable for the computation of ensemble
averages.) This script also generates a plot with the normalized time
correlation function of the pressure and the fitting results of the block
average method. (See ``ac_NNNN_MMMMMM.png`` and ``blav_NNNN_MMMMMM.png``.)

Feel free to modify both scripts in order to obtain the results as efficiently
as possible. The NVT simulations may take a few minutes, especially when longer
runs are requested. In those cases it is recommended to submit the simulations
on a queuing system.




References
==========

.. [BKS1990] van Beest, B. W. H., Kramer, G. J. & van Santen, R. A. 'Force
   fields for silicas and aluminophosphates based on ab initio calculations'.
   *Phys. Rev. Lett.* **64**, 1955-1958 (1990). URL
   http://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.64.1955.
